# Prediction-of-Apple-Ripeness
Prediction of Apple Ripeness Based on GLCM, CIE LAB, and Machine Learning

Apples are one of the preferred agricultural commodities because of their texture, nutrition, taste, and visual appeal. Apples can be classified based on the level of ripeness of the texture and color of the skin of the apple. Texture analysis is performed by feature extraction of Gray Level Co-occurrence Matrix (GLCM), CIE Lab color space to analyze color, and combining both features in machine learning algorithms. Determination of the level of physiological maturity of apples is done by calculating the starch conversion rate formed by the reaction with iodine solution. The image is preprocessed by cropping and resizing. The features extracted by GLCM at distances 1, 2, 3 and angles 0O, 45O, 90O, 135O are contrast, ASM, energy, homogeneity, and dissimilarity. Model training for maturity level classification is carried out by using feature selection and dimension reduction scenarios before entering ten machine learning algorithms. Feature selection is done by calculating the Z-value on the Standard Error of difference means (SEd). For feature dimension reduction, PCA analysis was performed. The result is that machine learning algorithms such as Nearest Neighbors, Linear SVM, Gaussian Process, Decision Tree, Random Forest, Neural Net, AdaBoost, Naive Bayes, and QDA get 100% accuracy. Therefore, the classification of apples based on the level of ripeness can be done using GLCM, Z-value SEd, and PCA analysis.

Keywords: apple ripeness, CIE Lab, GLCM, machine learning 
